8.7 Writing Parameterized Tests
​
​This is a lecture video on writing parametrized tests. ​Being part of the lecture topic of software testing. ​By the end of this video, you will be able to explain the separation of two ​concerns in writing parametrized tests. ​Explain the general 4A pattern. ​Write parameterized tests using the property-first guideline given ​a class under test. ​And write parameterized tests using the assumption-first ​guideline given a class under test. ​Writing parameterized tests can enable us to separate two major concerns. 
​First, we specify the external behaviors of the call and ​the test as parameterized tests than self typically with assertions. ​A long with the set top of the method sequences along with argument ​values in order to allow the assertions to be applicable. ​At the same time, we specify or generate the values for ​the parameters in the parameter tezt. ​As additional external mechanism rather than ​hard code such values inside the parameter test. ​So besides we manual write these test inputs as we can ​see using value source and other annotations. ​We can also use an automatic test generation tool to ​construct a small test with high coverage. ​As an example, commercial tools for generating values for the primary test. 
​Without requiring the wall post to specify the source of ​the argument values for the parameters in parameter test. ​For example, for Java programs, commercial tools. ​Include AgitarOne JUnit Generator Java and ​Parasoft Jtest, for .NET programs such as a C# programs. ​We can use Microsoft IntelliTest which is in the Visual Studio Enterprise edition. ​When writing parameter test, the workers can follow such ​general 4A pattern assume, arrange, act, and assert. ​In the beginning of the primary test, ​we can put down some assumptions to make sure that argument ​values being passed in must certify certain predicates. 
​Basically filtering out those invalid or ​illegal argument values being passed in for this parameter test. ​And then we have arrangement sometimes for ​bringing objects under test to a specific state or ​caching some values that later on we will use in the assertions. ​In this example, we have such arrangement to cache the values of the old size. ​And then we have act, basically, invoking the measure in the test. ​And finally, we have assert, for ​asserting the behavior of the core under test, would be as expected. ​Sometimes the assertions may also use some cache values ​such as oldSize is being stored in arrangement portion of the primary test. ​To illustrate how we can write primary test for ​a class under test, let's use integer set, int set. 
​Class as implementation of class set with ​integer elements with constructor and ​inserting an elements into the set. ​And checking whether a particular integer is a member of a set, ​removing an element from the set, and ​checking whether two objects of the integer sets are equal. ​Basically, checking whether the elements of these two sets ​are the same without considering the order of the elements or ​the duplicate elements of the and each unique element in these two sets. ​When writing parameter test, the workers can cheat writing such test, ​as writing eligible specifications, type or ​the form of specifications such specifications are in the form of axiom. ​Basically equation or in equation among the return values of the method calls or ​the resulting object state of the method calls being ​defined on the interface of the class and the test. ​In order to read such properties, we first need to define sequence ​how to read a method call expression in such properties specification. ​We specify this first argument of the method call to the receiver object. 
​Such as the first argument for remove here. ​And then we put the actual, the real argument for ​the method call of the remaining argument such as i for remove as a second argument. ​And then we refer to the resulting receiver ​object state of a method call as n.state for a method call n. ​For example, here, we basically use the resulting object state after we invoke ​insert on the given s object state, ​upon using the argument of j as insert's argument. ​We also use opposefix.iet to indicate ​the return value of a measure n. ​Next, we can see an example property being specified. ​Basically, we are saying for each integer i and ​integer j along with integer set s object as long as s is not null pointer and ​i is equal to j, then we have such equation. 
​The left hand side of the equation would be invoking insert ​on the receiver object state s with the argument j for insert. ​And then we had the resulting object state of the receive object state of the insert. ​And then we use that receiver object state of remove, ​and we invoke remove with the value i. ​And finally, ​we get the resulting receiver object state after invoking the remove method. ​On the right hand side, ​we invoke remove with the argument i on the receiver object s. ​And then we use a result in receiver object state after invoking remove. ​And these two result in object states would be equal. 
​In order to translate such formula to be close to ​[INAUDIBLE] code, we make a tool multiplications. ​First, instead of using this equals, we use the actual method ​call equals been define on the interface of a integer set to compare ​the left-hand side resulting obviously on right-hand side. ​In addition, given that left-hand side we use s, right-hand side, we also use s. ​It's not quite the same s anymore, if we invoke a bunch of methods. ​On the received object as on the left-hand side before we ​use it on the right hand side. ​Therefore, we introduce two objects s1, s2 instead of just S. ​At the same time, we add s1 equals S2, as a part of the conditions in the beginning, ​so that we know these two objects have the same state. 
​After we convert the accent, the formula to the middle ​part of the code snippets close to the executable code. ​We can further convert the code snippet into our actual parameters test. ​In particular, we convert this variables to ​be parameters of the parameter test and ​the conditions part to be assumption. ​We've seen the beginning of the parameter test and ​then the equation would be converted to the middle ​parts along with assertions in the end of the parameters test. ​Basically, the equation is converted to the act and ​assert part of the primary test. ​Then we can specify some properties for our class and test integer set. ​Here is one concrete example of such equations with a little ​bit more complicated conditions within the equation. 
​Such as if i = j then you have the right-hand side to be true. ​Otherwise, you have to the return value ​of these member method call being on the right-hand side. ​Being equivalent to the or being equal to the left-hand sides return value. ​Here, I just leave it as a brain exercise for ​you to figure out why we have these two equality properties for our integer set. ​We have two major guidelines for ​you to use to write properties in the form of a parameter test. ​First, we have this property first assumption second guideline. ​And then second, we have these assumption first, but property second guidelines. 
​Next, let me illustrate each of these guidelines one by one. ​In the property first guidelines, in the first step. ​We need to classify those methods being defined on the interface of the class and ​the test to be two major types. ​First, is modifiers, being those methods that can ​actually can modify the state of the receive object. ​Including the constructor method call, ​along with inset remove because these methods can ​modify the states of the integer set objects. ​Then we also classify the remaining ones to be observers. ​Being those that typically do not modify the receiver object stays, ​but can return some values to indicate the return type or ​inspecting the states of receiver objects. 
​By the way, this method should be public methods defined on the class and the test. ​And we don't concern about those private methods or non-private methods ​that we are not testing from the interface of the class and the test. ​In step two, we need to enumerate and those different pair ​wise combinations of these methods to formulate properties. ​For example, each observer o is paired with a modifier and ​each modifier m is paired with another modifier including m itself. ​Then in step three, after we pair them up, ​basically when we say we pair one methods after another. ​We basically invoke one method and then invoke another method after debt. ​In step three, we at proper assumptions in the beginning of ​such pair combination of the method cost. 
​So we can think about what kind of properties, ​what kind of assertions especially in terms of equality or ​inequality for us to specify the intended behaviors. ​Here's an example of the pairs like the first one. ​So I could construct the core and member, and then insert a member. ​And construct a call, and remove, insert, ​remove, insert, insert, and insert, insert. ​So now, we can enumerate these kind of like a pair of the method calls. ​And think about what kind of like equation or ​inequations that we could formulate on the right-hand side. ​In terms of checking the equality or ​inequality of the return values or this resulting object state. 
​The receiver object state from the left-hand side. ​Next, let's a look at Assumption-First Guideline. ​In the first step, we combine all possible returns of these observers ​that we can get from the interface of the class and the test. ​For our integer set, we can see we have member, and it's empty. ​Also the two main observer method, here, ​we intentionally not to put equals as one of the observers. ​Because typically, we use equals to compare the equality or ​equivalence of objects states. ​Then for these two observers, we can try combination of different value. 
​Such as for particular integer argument i, ​where there is a member of the set, ​or is not member and is empty or is not empty. ​And even the combinations of isEmpty and isMember. ​Or in the end, we basically don't impose any kind of constraints ​in terms of the receiver states of the class and the task. ​Then in step two, for each of such combinations of the returns, ​of observers including two. ​We formulate those properties that would be true under such conditions, ​by adding those additional combinations also assumption ​besides the one that we already observe. ​Then we can further follow the property first guidelines to ​continue the remaining process for formulating those properties ​that we would like to C being satisfied by the core under test




1. True or False

Question:
One can use an automatic test generation tool to construct a small test suite with high coverage.

Options:

True ✅
False ❌

✔ Correct Answer: True

Explanation:
Automatic test generation tools (e.g., EvoSuite) aim to:

Maximize coverage
Minimize test suite size

So in theory, they can construct a relatively small test suite with high coverage.

2. Code Question
📦 Code Block (Fully Extracted)
@ParameterizedTest
@ValueSource(...)
void PT1(int elem, Stack<Integer> stk) {
    assumeTrue(stk != null);
    int oldSize = stk.size();
    stk.push(elem);
    assertEquals(oldSize + 1, stk.size());
}

Question:
Which of the following refers to line 4 assumeTrue(stk != null);?

Options:

Assume ✅
Arrange ❌
Act ❌
Assert ❌

✔ Correct Answer: Assume

Explanation:
assumeTrue(...) defines a precondition.
If it fails, the test is skipped → this is the Assume phase.

3. Multiple Choice

Question:
Which of the following refers to line 6?

👉 Line 6:

stk.push(elem);

Options:

Assume ❌
Arrange ❌
Act ✅
Assert ❌

✔ Correct Answer: Act

Explanation:
Using the AAA pattern:

Arrange → int oldSize = stk.size();
Act → stk.push(elem);
Assert → assertEquals(...)
4. Multiple Choice

Question:
Which of the following does NOT belong to the Property-First Guideline?

Options:

Classify methods ❌
Pairwise-combine methods to formulate properties ❌
Formulate properties specific to each feasible combination of observers' returns as assumptions ✅
Add proper assumptions to make the properties ❌

✔ Correct Answer:
Formulate properties specific to each feasible combination of observers' returns as assumptions

Explanation:
Property-First Guideline emphasizes:

General properties
Method classification
Combining behaviors

It does NOT include:

Enumerating every possible observer-return combination (too specific, not scalable)