​This is a lecture video on test generalization. ​Being part of the lecture's topic of software testing. ​By the end of this video, ​you will be able to list the four steps of test generalization and ​conduct test generalization given a set of conventional tests. ​Let's take a look at some example conventional tests. ​In short, CTs for stack, the Class, and the Test. ​For the first conventional test, we have the element as one and ​then we put such element into the empty stack and ​we check whether the size of the stack is 1. ​The second conventional test is doing very similar thing but ​instead of using this element of 1 value, ​we use element of the value 30. 
​And for the rest, we are doing the same, ​checking the size of the stack being 1 after pushing 30 into the stack. ​The third conventional test is exercising ​the behavior of push as a pushing 2 elements into ​the empty stack, and then check whether the size is 2. ​To some extent, we could view that the cert test is checking ​pushing an element into a non-empty stack to see whether the behavior is expected. ​In summary, the first and second conventional tests ​exercise push with different test data 1 and 30. ​And the cert conventional test exercises push when the stack is not empty. ​We could see that there are too many issues with these three conventional test, ​for testing the behavior of the stack particularly the push behavior. ​First, we may have some undetective fault in the information of the stack class. 
​When things can go wrong, if we pass in ​a negative values being pushed into the stack. ​Second, we also have some redundant test there. ​Particularly, CT1 and CT2, this first, ​second conventional test are redundant to each other. ​Because they're essentially testing the same behavior of the stack. ​Next, we are showing the process of test generalization for ​generalizing conventional test to parametric test so ​that we can have a stronger capability. ​And lower redundancies among the unit tests that we are writing for ​a class and the test such as a stack. ​Our process includes four steps. 
​Next, let me illustrate each step one at a time. ​Step one, parameterize. ​Basically, push in some of the primitive values or ​non-primitive objects within the body of conventional test ​as parameters of the parameterized test that we are going to produce. ​In particular, we promote primitive values as arguments. ​For the first conventional test, ​we can promote the elements to be pushed into the stack ​as a parameter rather than using the constant one. ​Similarly, for the second conventional test, ​we also promote the elements to be a parameter. ​Second, we would like to promote some non-primitive ​objects such as receiver objects as arguments, so ​that we can have a more general state of the receiver object, ​or other kind of object. 
​Such as an argument object that we would like to try to ​exercise the code and the test. ​In our example, we can promote such stack ​initially as an empty stack object to be ​arguments of the parameterized test. ​Similarly here, we also promote the stk, ​the variable for the empty stack to be argument of the parameterized test. ​So after we promote such objects or constants to be parameters, ​it happens that for these two conventional tests, ​we produce exactly the same parameterized test. ​At this point we will like to them, and for now so ​that later on we can combine them and merge them and ​in order to carry out the latest steps in this process. ​Similarly, for the cert conventional test, we can do similar thing. ​For example, promoting the element 1 to be one parameter of the parameterized test, ​element 2 to be the second parameters of the parameterized test. 
​Similarly, we also promote stk to be a parameter of the parameterized test. ​So as I mentioned earlier, after we carry out such promotion, ​we can merge those duplicate parameterized unit tests after promotions of those ​variables to be parameters of the parameterized test. ​Now let's look at the second step, generalize test oracles. ​In particular, we would like to make the assertions in the parameterized ​test generalized for on the conventional test to be as applicable and ​valid under the current parameterized test. ​Recorded earlier, we merge the two identical or redundant ​parameterized test generalized from the first and the second parameterized test. ​For such parameterized test, ​we have an assertion with constant as a 1 in the assertions. ​Now we see that the assertion is not valid anymore because our stack being ​used for pushing one element in is not empty stack anymore. 
​It can be a stack of optional size. ​Therefore, we need to make our assertion to be more general. ​If you look a little bit closer, we could see that actually, we are essentially ​asserting the behavior that after pushing an element into the stack, ​we would like to have the size to be increase by 1. ​Based on that, we can generalize these constant 1 to ​be oldSize + 1 and ​such oldSize is a value that we cash in the beginning ​of the parameterized test by reading ​the size of the stack before we push the element in. ​Similarly, for the cert parameterized test being generalized from the assert ​conventional test, we carry out similar kind of exercise. ​And so we could see here, we are actually testing ​the behavior of the stack size been increased by ​2 after we pushed two elements into a stack. ​By testing the oldSize before we push the two elements. 
​In the subset, we would like to add assumptions in the beginning of ​a parameterized test in order to prevent illegal values for the parameters, ​or enable the assertions that we already generalized and to be valid. ​For example, for both of the parameterized tests, we can add ​assumeTrue (stk) not equal to null pointer. ​The reason is that, if we pass in null reference or ​null pointer of stk then invoke in size or push on such non-reference of stk, ​we cause a non-reference, the referencing exceptions. ​Which would not be what we want, therefore we ​would like to filter out such illegal inputs that we can allow ​some argument values to pass in to excise the behavior that we would like to test. ​In the fourth step, we would like to generalize ​further across multiple parameterized test that we already generalize from ​the promotion of the parameters and the generalization of the assertions. ​We would like to see opportunities for having a more general, ​a more generalized parameterized test to represent some of these payer or ​some of the subset of the parameterized test. ​For our payer of the two parameterized tests, ​we actually could see that what we really care about is ​to check after we add a certain number of the elements into the stack. 
​We would like to see the size of the stack. ​Would be to send us the number of the elements that we push into the stack ​if the initial stack before we push any element is an empty stack. ​In this aspect, we could produce even more generalize primary test by ​having the parameters of the parameterized test as an integer array. ​And then, we first make assumption to make sure ​that the integer array is not null pointer. ​And then, we create empty stack and use a loop to iterate so ​each elements in the integer array and ​push such element into our initial array empty stack. ​And finally, we check whether the size of the stack is ​equal to the number of elements in our integer rate. ​



