8.5 Parameterized Tests: Basics

​This is a lecture video on Parameterized Tests: Basics, ​being part of the lecture topic of Software Testing. ​By the end of this video, ​you will be able to explain the difference between ​a parameterized test and a conventional test, ​explain the differences among using ValueSource, EnumSource, MethodSource, CsvSource, ​CsvFileSource, and ArgumentsSource, and write parameterized tests using ValueSource, ​EnumSource, MethodSource, CsvSource, CsvFileSource, and ArgumentsSource respectively. ​A parameterized test is a unit test with parameters, ​unlike conventional unit tests which do not have parameters for the unit test methods. ​In this example, we use ValueSource as a way for ​providing arguments of specific types such as a short byte integer, ​long flow the double, ​characters, string or generally class. ​In our example, we supply three string values ​one-by-one for us to invoke the parameters tests. ​After we use the execution engine of the unit test to ​run such parameter tests which the supplied source of the argument values, ​we can have three concrete conventional unit tests being produced, ​with each of them corresponding to the argument values being listed from the ValueSource. ​Besides using the ValueSource to supply argument values for ​those premium type argument values for the parameter test, ​we can also use EnumSource ​for the arguments of enumerate type of the parameters tests. 
​For our example, we have the enumerate type TimeUnit for the parameter test, ​then we can specify the argument values using ​the EnumSource with the value as TimeUnit.class, ​and then using the concrete names of ​the constants being defined on the TimeUnit class as days and hours. ​Then when we execute these parameter test with the supplied argument values. ​We parse in two different argument values with the enumerate type constant. ​We can also use MethodSource, ​to specify one or more factory methods, ​of the test class or an external class, ​in order to supply argument values for the parameter tests. ​For our example, we specify ​stringProvider as the name of the factory method that we are going to use. ​Then the execution engine we search the test class for ​search tests factory method matching the specified string of the method name. ​These factory method return stream of two string values. 
​By default the stream would indicate the lease of the strings, ​such as a foo and bar. ​We can also define some other stream types for other primitive types such as a double, ​integer and long, as a return type ​of the factory methods that we are going to specify for the parameter tests. ​So far we have shown the examples of parameters test with a single parameter. ​Of course, we can also specify multiple parameters for a parameters test. ​In such situations, we can ​use return type for the factory measure a stream of arguments. ​For our example, here we specify ​the three argument values for the three parameters of the parameters tests, ​and then we use arguments to encapsulate ​all these three elements together as one of the elements being returned in the stream, ​being fed as argument values for the parameters tests. ​Using the MethodSource to specify the factory method, ​we can also put down fully qualified method name such as the patch name, ​class name, and the method name for the factory methods ​being defined as external static factory method. 
​We can also use CsvSource to specify a list of string literals separated by commas. ​As example here, for the two parameters of the parameter test, ​one string the other as integer, ​we can specify three pairs of ​the values for us to specify with CsvSource. ​So that we have these implicit conversion from the string values as one, two, three, ​being converted to the integer type ​during the execution of the parameterized test with such argument values. ​Note that, here we use ​a single quotation mark to indicate the quote characters in stream. ​We can also use CsvFileSource to specify the name of the csv file from the class path. ​Here is example of the csv file with the name as a two column. ​Then we can specify CsvFileSource with the resources being the file name. 
​In addition, we also specify the number lines to skip as one, ​because for our csv file the first line indicates the header of the data in the csv file. ​We should skip this first row or first line, ​when we read the lines from the csv file as one line being ​one list of the arguments being fed to the parameters of the parameters test. ​As you can see, we have three lines, ​starting from the second line, ​each line of these three lines will be ​used as the argument values for invoking this parameters tests. ​Note that, here within the csv file, ​we use double quotation mark to indicate the quote characters. ​You can also use ArgumentsSource to specify a custom reducible arguments provider class, ​being declared as a top level class or as a static nested class. ​For our example, we declare MyArgumentsProvider as ​the class name to supply factory methods for being used with these parameterized test. ​Then the execution engine, ​will look for applicable public method defined on these MyArgumentsProvider, ​with the return type as applicable on the parameters of the parameters test. 



Question 1: What are Parameterized tests used for in JUnit?

✅ Run a test many times with different sets of parameters
❌ Run a test with no parameters
❌ Run a test with only String parameters
❌ Run a test once with fixed set of parameters


Question 2: Which annotation must a parameterized test class carry?

❌ @Test
❌ @ParameterisedClass
✅ @ParameterizedTest
❌ @Class


Question 3: Which annotation allows you to supply a simple array of literal values (e.g., int, String, double) directly to a parameterized test?

❌ @CsvSource
❌ @EnumSource
✅ @ValueSource
❌ @ArgumentsSource

@ValueSource is specifically designed for simple single-argument literal arrays. @CsvSource is for multiple arguments, @EnumSource is for enums only, and @ArgumentsSource requires a custom provider class.

Question 4: True or False: If we want only specific values from the Enum, we can do that using @EnumSource name parameter.

✅ True
❌ False

@EnumSource has a names parameter that lets you filter specific enum constants.

Question 5: True or False: We can use @MethodSource to specify a factory method for test arguments. The factory method should be static.

✅ True
❌ False

By default, @MethodSource factory methods must be static, unless the test class is annotated with @TestInstance(Lifecycle.PER_CLASS).