# 11.3 Tracking and Reproducing Problem
​This is a lecture video on Tracking and Reproducing Problem, ​being part of the lecture topic of debugging. ​By the end of this video, ​you will be able to list the seven key elements of tracking and reproducing a problem, ​and prepare a problem report for a given problem by following the seven key elements. ​There are seven key elements in tracking and reproducing a problem. ​First, we need to describe specific steps for reproducing the problem, ​and we need to isolate relevant parts of the inputs or steps, ​in order to reproduce the problem. ​We would like to generalize the inputs or the steps, ​in order to see whether other kinds of ​inputs or steps could also enable us to reproduce the same problem, ​and then, we need to summarize the discussions of ​the problem into a single succinct sentence. ​Finally, we need to condense, ​disambiguate, and neutralize the language being used in describing the problem. ​Next, we are going to use a Web-based Word Processing Program named as ​a SpeedyWriter to illustrate a problem being faced when using such a program. 
​Here, is not the good example of describing ​the problem being faced when using these programs. ​Nasty bug trashed contents of new file that I ​created by formatting some texts in Arial font, wasting my time. ​Next, let's improve our initial attempt ​which is not that good for describing the problem, ​in order to allow other people to reproduce the same problem. ​In our problem report, ​we would like to include steps to reproduce section, ​including specific step for reproducing the problem being faced. ​We list the first step as; ​I started the SpeedyWriter editor, ​then I created a new file. ​Second step, I then typed in four lines of text, ​repeating "The quick fox jumps over the lazy brown dog" each time. ​Third step, I highlighted the text, ​and then pulled down the font menu, and selected Arial. 
​Step four, this nasty bug trashed all the texts into meaningless garbage, ​wasting the user's time. ​Step five, I was able to reproduce this problem three out of three tries. ​A secrecy, typically, we need to describe ​specific details for other people to reproduce the same problem, ​and for the users who are reporting ​the problem in documented the details in the problem report. ​Typically, the users or the developers need to reproduce ​the same problem at least three times by ​trying to follow the steps being described in the problem report. ​Now, let's do some isolation of the steps or the inputs for reproducing the problem. ​In the first attempt, we say, ​on the vague suspicion that this was just a formatting problem, ​I saved the file, ​closed SpeedyWriter and reopened the file. ​The garbage remained. 
​Such attempt indicates that the corrupted font problem would ​remain on the file without being only showing ​up in the editor before we save to the file. ​When we are doing isolation, ​particularly we looked for specific relevant steps or inputs for reproducing the problem. ​The second thing that we try is, ​if you save the file before Arializing the contents, ​the bug does not occur. ​Such attempt indicates that, ​not saving the file before Arializing the contents would cause the bug to happen. ​But if we save the file before Arializing the contents, ​we would then face the problem. ​The third attempt that we would like to do for isolating ​the problem is the bug does not occur with existing files. ​Which means that in our steps for reproducing the problem, ​creating a new file instead of using existing file, ​plays a very key factor for causing the problem. 
​Basically, creating new file would be ​a very relevant portion of the step or the inputs for causing the problem. ​Similarly, we also investigate ​that basically this problem only happens under Windows 98 operating system. ​In other words, such a specific operating system would ​play a very important factors being part of the relevant input or steps, ​for the environment conditions for causing such problem. ​Furthermore, we investigate that this problem is new to build 1.1.018. ​But such problem would then happen when we ​are using builds 1.1.007 through 1.1.017. ​In other words, this specific build is ​very relevant part of the conditions for causing the problem. ​In contrasts or isolation, ​for which we would like to change a little bit ​of the step or inputs for reproducing the problem, ​and see that the problem disappears, ​indicating that the parts that we changed would be relevant. 
​Generalization here is to investigate ​other conditions or other steps or inputs that the same problem can occur. ​We can do some further investigation to find out that ​the same problem also happens with Wingdings and Symbol fonts. ​For the second step, ​in the steps for reproducing the problem, ​we can also add additional other effects to ​allow us to see the problem actually will still happen under such different effects. ​Including using different effects each time, ​bold, italic, strikethrough, and underline, ​the problem still exist. ​After we had a full discussion of the problem in our problem report, ​we need to summarize the essential parts ​of the problem discussion as one single sentence. ​For this particular example problem report, ​we would like to put down a single sentence as Arial, ​Wingdings, and Symbol fonts corrupt new files. ​Next, we are going through those sentences in our problem report, ​to make sure that our sentences are succinct enough. 
​For example, for the sentence, ​"If you save the file before Arializing the contents, ​the bug does not occur." ​We can use a much shorter sentence to describe ​the same meaning as "Saving file before changing font prevents bug." ​Next, we would like to double-check the sentences in our problem report ​to find out whether there are some ambiguities in some sentences. ​For example, when we describe the third step, highlighted the text, ​we may want to add additional phrase as all four lines of the text. ​Then for the fourth step, ​this nasty bug trashed all texts into a meaningless garbage. ​We would like to further provide detail to ​illustrate what these meaningless garbage would mean. ​Therefore, additional phrases as including control characters, ​numbers, and other binary junks. 
​For the sentence of, ​also happens with Wingdings and Symbol fonts, ​we would like to clarify further on what does it mean "Also happens ​with" replace this phrase as reproduce with same steps using Wingdings and Symbol fonts. ​For the sentence, "This only happens under Windows 98," ​we would like to illustrate what are the operating systems that we have already tried, ​but we do not observe such problem. ​Therefore, we add additional phrases as not Solaris, ​Mac, or other Windows flavors. ​Next, we would like to go through our sentences in the problem report, ​so that we could avoid using ​some a little bit offensive or too negative words in our problem description. ​For the fourth step, we see that we have such phrases as this nasty bug trashed, ​and meaningless garbage, and binary junk wasting the user's time. ​As you will see such phrases are pretty emotional or reflecting ​very negative emotions of the persons who are reporting the problem. ​We could tone down or neutralize ​such phrases by convening the same semantics of the description. 
​An example improved version of the sentences would be, ​"All texts converted to control characters, ​numbers, and other apparently random binary data." ​As you can see, we are more describing the facts and ​observations rather than adding some negative emotions into the descriptions. ​Here is a Final Problem Report that we produced with ​those key elements being listed for tracking and reproducing a problem. ​We have the first portion as a summary of the problem, ​and then steps to reproduce the problem, ​and also including isolation of the problem, ​particularly those steps or inputs for reproducing the problem. ​Note that in this section for isolation, ​we also include some of the results for ​generalization along with some parts in the step for reproducing the problem, ​we may also include some results for the generalization element. ​

### Question 1. What is the purpose of Neutralize step during tracking/reproducing a problem?
- Remove system information
- Remove negative information ✅
- Add detailed problem information
- None of the above

### Question 2. Is the following statement True or False?
Disambiguate step removes ambiguities from the problem description.
- True ✅
- False

### Question 3. Is the following statement True or False?
Isolate and Generalization steps do not happen together when tracking/reproducing a problem.
- True
- False ✅
