​This is the lecture video on Problem Tracker, ​being part of the lecture topic of debugging. ​By the end of this video, ​you will be able to list the seven types of relevant information in the problem report ​for reproducing the failure and list main entries of a problem report in bug zeller. ​A problem report also named as a change request, ​in short, as a CR and more commonly, ​Bug Report includes relevant information for ​reproducing the failure being captured in the problem report. ​A problem report typically includes ​seven types of information for reproducing the failure. ​The first three major types described the environment ​where the failure happens such as a specific version or ​versions of the software products that the failure happens and the ​specific version or versions of the operating system that the failure can happen. ​Given that some failures may be due to some limited system resources being allocated, ​therefore we also include the system resources within ​the environment that the failure happens such as a CPU usage allocation, ​along with the network bandwidth allocation, ​and storage allocation et cetera. ​The next piece of information is very critical in the problem report, problem history. 
​For describing the steps that others can follow in order to reproduce a failure, ​then we also include the discussion of ​the expected behavior we suspect to the requirements followed ​by the discussion of the experience behavior being ​inconsistent with the expected behavior thus causing the failure. ​Finally, the problem report needs to include ​one-line summary for capturing the essence of the failure in the problem report. ​We can use a Problem Tracker such as a Bugzilla to keep check of those problem reports, ​both for being made available for the bug reporters to report ​the problem as well as allowing the workers to ​investigate and resolve the reported problem reports. ​Here's a example of a problem report in Bugzilla. ​Near the top we see the bug ID assigned to this problem report ​and the lines of the tags near the top is the one-line summary for the problem report. ​You can see the status of the problem report as a result duplicate of another bug ID, ​basically the ID of another problem report indicating that ​these problem report is a duplicate problem report as another problem report. ​In fact, if we click into another problem report, ​we can see these problem report has verified fixed status indicating that ​the fix is already provided for that problem report and the fix is also verified. 
​In the status of the problem report, ​we can see product information, ​component information, along with the report date, ​and last modified date or year. ​Here, Critical indicate the severity of ​the problem report being part of the important attributes. ​For the people portion of the problem report, ​we have assignee here. ​The assignee is unassigned which means that we do ​not assign any debugger to handle this problem report, ​because as discussed earlier this problem report is ​a duplicate problem report of ​another problem report already been handled or under investigation. ​Here we see the name of the reporter and further we show the version of the product, ​target indicates, the upcoming version, ​the thought being captured or being ​chased than from the failure in these problem reports to be fixed. ​The target milestone for fixing the fault refracted by these problem report. ​Then we also list the platforms for the environments and the keywords as the crash, ​we also include other details such as URL for these problem report, ​and also the crash lock being uploaded for this problem report. 
​After we further scroll down the online form for this problem report, ​we can see more information about the problem report particularly here we see Mark, ​the reporter for this problem report provides ​discretion of the failure being captured in the problem report. ​The beginning part of the discussions describes some brief discussion of ​the environment conditions and then we also see the steps ​to reproduce the failure including very succinct discussion of the step. ​Open browser, enter the specific CBS UI0, ​and then press return. ​Then we have the discussion of the expected behaviors as that the browser doesn't crash, ​the experience behaviors would be page starts to load and then crashes. ​Then we also have additional discussion saying ​no other sign so far have displayed these behavior, ​indicating that such failing behavior may be specific to that particular CBS website. ​As we could see, besides the initial discussion, ​we also see some additional comments made by the bug reporter, ​Mark by adding additional information besides the initial discussion. ​Then Guthrie who is the worker of this project can also ​follow up with additional comments asking questions to the bug reporter Mark here. 
​Adam asks, "Could you install with talkback and get a talkback ID for the crash?" ​In addition, Adam also took action to configure these problem report by ​setting the severity for a normal to critical ​as we have seen earlier near the top of the problem report. ​The importance of this problem report is labeled as a critical. ​Then also at the keyword as crash. ​


### Question 1. Which of the following information does the problem history section of the bug report include?
- System specifications
- Error Output
- Expected behavior
- Steps to reproduce the bug ✅

### Question 2. Is the following statement True or False?
The bug report includes bug ids of duplicated problems
- True ✅
- False

### Question 3. Bugzilla is which of the following?
- IDE
- Debugging Tool
- Bug Tracking tool ✅
- All of the above