​Here's a lecture video on fault localization, ​being part of the lecture topic of debugging. ​By the end of this video, ​you will be able to list main activities during fault localization. ​List expertise needed to conduct cause elimination. ​And conduct tracing backtracking, cause elimination given a failing input. ​Fault localization is to locate the location of the fault for ​eventually causing the failure to be observed. ​There are several main activities during fault localization, ​including tracing, backtracking, cause elimination, ​as well as coverage-based for localization, ​which we will discuss in details in the next lecture video. ​Tracing is to watch the execution of the program by ​collecting program execution information. 
​Such as variable values, and along with which branch is important on ​the execution would go through during the execution. ​We can determine when it goes wrong by using different techniques to collect such ​information such as, adding some printing statements, ​to print out some variable values during executions at specific execution points. ​We can also leverage single stepping i n a debugger being used in IDE for ​us to carry out the debugging activities. ​We can actually put in some login statements by ​using some login libraries such as log4j for ​Java to add such logs in during our runtime execution. ​So that we could inspect the logs to figure out what the program is doing and ​during a specific execution point. ​Note that such login statements are very important even in a deploy assistance, ​especially for assistance or some online services. ​Where very complex environment conditions could be there for causing a failure. 
​And even in such situation, when the failure cannot be reproduced, we can ​see you leverage the logging information to help us carry out debugging. ​We can also add breakpoints in a debugging environment, ​you see some debuggers on, including some conditional breakpoints. ​And we can also add some assertions or watchpoints to allow us to ​figure out where the same errors can happen at a specific execution points. ​We will elaborate some more details about assertions in later lecture reviews. ​We can carry on, backtracking to start with ​the initial failure being observed, and then we follow ​the error propagation chain by going back in the executions. ​In order to find out the first failure upon basically ​the 40 location for causing such a first error ​been observed as a failure by using some additionalobservations. ​Such as heading some printing statements to collapse those ​specific hypothesize variable values or ​possible causes to allow us to trace on the real cause of the failure. 
​In particular, we repeatedly run the program with some new print statements ​being edit at those likely hypothesize points for ​possible causes to cause our currently observed errors. ​Basically we would like to hypothesize what could have caused ​the current error and then we back check and ​place additional print statements to test such possibility. ​Know that we may remove some unneeded print or ​tracing statements, we add it earlier for ​later execution points if we have already traced back to the early execution points. ​We don't need such unnecessary printing or tracing statements. ​Such a back checking can work well with an automated testing tool or ​debuggers or break points being added to the program executions. ​Cause elimination is to figure out what ​could cause the current observed failure or error. ​And we would like to list all different possibilities and ​check each of such possibilities one by one, ​by examining the program particularly the program executions. 
​And by performing experiments, by doing some. ​For example, we can use debugger to force certain values ​to be different values at real time and ​see whether the errors or the later failure disappears. ​More like formulating some hypothesis and then carry out some experiments ​to see whether our hypothesis would be true or not. ​So carrying out such a course elimination ​would require some knowledge of the program and the debugging. ​And those common faults that can be made by developers. ​Such needed expertise requires the person conducting fault organization ​to know the model or the behavior of the program typically in their head. ​They can imagine how the program executes more like using the mental ​executions of the program instead of actually running the program. 
​They can carry out such a mental experimentations or ​exercise of what gets through. ​Different execution can cause froze of the program. ​Such expertise also requires the person conducting faultilization to know ​different kinds of common force and made by the. ​For example, for C, C++ programs, ​some common faults could be null pointers or dereferencing. ​So other kind of pointer errors, and losing memory, etc. ​And for those file I/O API's, ​a common force could be not closing the file after ​opening a file and reading contents form the file. ​And for programs, not initializing an object ​correctly could be a common thought when using APIs, ​sending message to the wrong object basically invoking ​the wrong message on a particular class could be a common fault. 
​Here is a reference for the contents being discussed in this lecture video. ​And here is the end of the lecture video. 


### Question 1. Developer A tries to determine the fault by following an error propagation chain. Which of the following activities describes the above statement during fault localization?
- Tracing
- Cause elimination
- Backtracking ✅
- None of the above

### Question 2. Developer B watches the execution of the program by inserting breakpoints, assertions, and print statements. Which of the following activities best describes the above statement during fault localization?
- Tracing ✅
- Backtracking
- Cause Elimination
- Coverage based localization

### Question 3. Developer C attempts to check every possible cause of the failure. Which of the following activities best describes the above statement during fault localization?
- Backtracking
- Cause Elimination ✅
- Tracing
- None of the above

### Question 4. Is the following statement True or False?
Cause elimination requires the person debugging to have expertise about the program and common developer faults.
- True ✅
- False