​This is a lecture video on assertions, ​being part of the lecture topic of debugging. ​By the end of this video, you will be able to explain ​what exp2 in"assert exp1 and esp2 is for. ​Explain the differences between assertions in Java and assertions in JUnit. ​Assertions are either true or false statements about a program's ​execution during a particular execution point. ​For example, we may state a particular variable is integer between 1 and ​10, and a particular variable is not null. ​Two variables have relationship, so one variable is less than the other variable. ​Know that such assertions in the program in the test or ​in the debugging are different than those assertions you see in testing. 
​Such assertions being used in the program can reduce time spent for debugging. ​Because the errors can be detected close to when and ​where these errors occur, rather than relying on the assertions ​in the test code to detect those propagated areas to be failures. ​Now we can actually go inside the program ​to detect those errors during the execution ​instead of being outside as a black box to the program. ​It's easier to track down the source of the failure, i.e, fault, ​by using the assertions inside the program as we discussed earlier. ​Because the errors typically will be closer to ​the location of the fault than the failure location, ​which typically would be the assertions in the test code. ​In Java, since it's version 1.4, ​the workers can write assertions by using the statement assert. ​The workers can specify the assertions to be satisfied after this assert keyword. 
​We can also provide two expressions after assert, ​with the first assertion expression that we would like to ​see being satisfied during the execution point, where we put the assert. ​The second expression would be the argument of the exception ​being strong when the assertion is violated. ​Assertions in unit tests are completely different, ​as we discussed already, assertEquals, assertTrue. ​These are the assertions being used in unit test code for JUnit. ​Here are two example assertions in Java for the stack class. ​Particular in the pop method, we can put down assertions, ​as in the beginning of the body of the pop method ​asserting that the stack should not be empty. ​By putting the observer makes a call in the first ​expression after assert by putting negation ​in front of the isEmpty's return value. 
​And if this assertion is violated, in other words, ​the stack is empty, then an exception is thrown, ​with the string, Stack is empty, ​as argument for the exception being thrown. ​The second assertion is placed ​near the end of the body of abs. ​Basically, this assertion is asserting the return ​value number being greater or equal to zero. ​The workers can choose to execute these inserted ​assertions in the program and the test or program and ​the debugging during the phases of testing and debugging. ​However, the workers can choose not to execute these assertions ​in the production code, because they're likely a little bit ​high over head of checking against these assertions. ​Especially for those production ecosystems that would require very high performance. ​In JVM, when running the applications, ​return with assertion inserted in the production code. 
​You can enable or disable the assertions by specifying ​the package and the package name and the class name, ​where the assertions should be enable or disable. ​We can also use the shorthand, ea, to indicate enable assertion, ​and da to indicate disable assertions. ​Here is a reference for the context being discussed in this lecture video, and ​here's the end of the lecture video. 