# Lecture Info
8.4 JUnit: Assumptions

# Transcript
​This is a lecture video on JUnit: Assumptions, ​being part of the lecture topic of software testing. ​By the end of this lecture video, ​you will be able to use assumeTrue or assumeFalse to write unit test cases, ​and use assumingThat to write unit test cases. ​Assumption API methods from the JUnit framework are ​the static methods defined in this particular package from the JUnit framework, ​including primary assumeFalse, assumeTrue, with supporting arguments. ​Assuming that the first argument as assumption boolean value ​and the second argument is excutable as the excutable code being SQT. ​When we use assert true in the beginning of our unit test case, ​we check whether the boolean argument assumption is true or not. ​If it's true, then we continue the rest of the unit test code. ​However, if it's false, ​then we will skip the rest of the test code. 
​For the example, unit tests on the slide, ​we check whether the environment is the CI. ​If so, we continue the execution of the test code. ​Otherwise, we simply just skip the remaining of the test code. ​Assuming that API method has two arguments with the first one as Boolean assumption, ​second one being Executable. ​Basically, if the assumption is true, ​then we will execute the executable code. ​Otherwise, we will skip executing the executable code. ​We will still continue the remaining of the test code even if the assumption, ​the first boolean argument of assuming that is false. 
​For the example tests on the slide similar to the previous slide, ​we check the environment, ​ENV, to be CI or not. ​If so, we will execute the code in these executable argument. ​Here, we have this assertEquals( 2, ​2) basically, always satisfies as true. ​If the environment is not CI, ​then we will skip executing the code in the executable argument. ​No matter whether this assumption its true or not, ​we still execute the remaining lies of test code. ​

# Quiz 

Question 1: assumingThat method has two arguments, they should be ordered by:

✅ The first one as Boolean assumption, second one being Executable
❌ The first one as Executable, second one being Boolean assumption


Question 2: True or False: In JUnit 5, if the condition passed to 'assumingThat' evaluates to false, only the code inside the 'assumingThat' block is skipped, while the rest of the test method continues to execute.

✅ True
❌ False


Code (referenced in questions 3 & 4):
java@Test
void test() {
    assumingThat(
        false,
        () -> { System.out.print("1"); }
    );

    System.out.print("2");
}

Question 3: Will "1" get printed?

❌ Yes
✅ No


Question 4: Will "2" get printed?

✅ Yes
❌ No
