# 11.1 Debugging Overview
​
Interactive Transcript - Enable basic transcript mode by pressing the escape key
You may navigate through the transcript using tab. To save a note for a section of text press ⌘ + S. To expand your selection you may use ⌘ + arrow key. You may contract your selection using shift + ⌘ + arrow key. For screen readers that are incompatible with using arrow keys for shortcuts, you can replace them with the H J K L keys. Some screen readers may require using ⌘ in conjunction with the alt key
​This is a lecture video on debugging overview. ​Being part of the lecture topic of debugging, ​by the end of this video you will be able to list two major steps in debugging. ​Explain why a program needs to be re-tested after a fault in it is fixed. ​Explain the difference between testing and debugging in terms of failures and faults. ​And explain the steps in the TRAFFIC debugging process. ​In the previous weeks lecture topic, we discussed the topic of software testing. ​Here we are talking about debugging, ​what is the difference between debugging and testing? 
​How would you describe such difference in terms of failures and faults. ​Recall that we discussed the differences between mistake, fault, error and failure. ​Basically, when writing code developers can ​make a mistake by inserting a fault into the code. ​And then we carry out software testing in order to expose such ​fault to be a failure based on the exclusion of the test input and ​checking the test output against the against the test oracles. ​In other words, the main purpose of testing is to find failure, ​which is a symptom or situation that gives wrong result of the program execution. ​Testing would produce tests that fail which we name as a failing test. ​In contrast, the main purpose of debugging is to locate and ​fix the fault for causing the failure. 
​Given the failure that we would like to debug. ​Fault is the root cause for ​causing the failure to happen during the program execution. ​The final outcome of the debugging process is to produce ​fixing change to the code in order to fix the fault to ​prevent the failures from happening in the future. ​Basically, debugging, and more precisely, program debugging, includes two steps. ​First is to locate fault, basically the root cause for ​causing the program not to behave as expected. ​And then the second step is to fix such located fault. ​Note that the root cause for ​causing the failure can be elsewhere, not within the program. 
​Such as some mistakes being made when configuring the program, ​basically, the root cause has been in program configurations. ​In some other situations, the root cause can be on the data. ​Especially for the kinds of programs relying on the training ​data being used to produce the program basically like the learning program. ​Such as deep learning programs. ​We can also root causes being from the hardware instead of the software. ​Therefore, causing the program not to behave as expected. ​Due to the underlying hardware issues. 
​Know that after we fix the fault in the program and the debugging, ​we need to re-test the program in order to make sure that the fault gets fully fixed. ​In addition, no new faults are introduced during the fixing process. ​To carry out debugging, we can follow the TRAFFIC debugging process. ​By using the first letter of each of the seven steps in the process. ​First step, Track the problem. ​By entering a problem report, also named as a bug report, ​including relevant information for reproducing ​the failure into a problem checker, such as Bugzilla. ​We also need to reproduce the failure by following ​the detail steps being documented in the problem report. 
​We need to write system tests, or unit tests, ​to reproduce the failures automatically. ​So that first, we can leverage such automatic test exclusions ​to reproduce the failures during the debugging process of ​including experimentation as described in latest steps. ​And we can also re-test the fixed version of the program ​to make sure that the fix is completely fixed and ​the fix does not introduce a new fault. ​Then we need to find the origins of the root causes for ​failures by tracing from the known infection point. ​In other words, the failure point, such as the crashing location, ​or the assertion violation location backward along the infection chain. ​In the process, we need to focus on those locations possibly ​wrong such as those locations being 40 in the past, ​or reflecting those common mistakes being made by the workers in the past. ​Or those locations explicitly wrong such as violations of ​those assertions that have been added in the program. 
​During the debugging process, we also need to do isolation ​of the root causes by systematically narrowing down ​the failure causes using observation and experimentations. ​We will get more in later lecture videos on this step. ​And finally, after locating the fault, we can propose a fix for ​fixing default by doing the actual change on the faulty location.

### Question 1. What is the purpose of debugging?
- Fix failures
- Find failures
- Fix faults ✅
- Find faults

### Question 2. Is the following statement True or False?
Debugging has the same purpose as testing.
- True
- False ✅

### Question 3. Which of the following steps is NOT a part of the debugging process?
- Reproduce
- Focus
- Isolate
- None of the above ✅