​This is a lecture video on Design by Contract, ​being part the lecture topic of Debugging. ​By the end of this video, ​you will be able to explain the differences among preconditions, ​postconditions, class invariants, and loop invariants. ​Write preconditions, postconditions, and ​class invariants given a class and its requirements. ​Determine whether a given assertion is ​a loop invariant for a given program including a loop. ​There are two major types of assertions, ​with the first one being checkpoint. ​So, those assertions that we already discussed in the previous lecture video. ​The second major type of assertions are designed by contracts, ​include preconditions and postcondition for probably method defined on the class, ​and class invariants for a class. 
​A method typically works properly only under certain conditions. ​To capture such certain conditions, ​we can use precondition, ​which is assertion that must be true before ​such method is executed in order for it to work properly. ​To capture how such method would be working properly, ​we can use postcondition, ​which is assertion that is true after a method is ​executed under the situation that the precondition is satisfied. ​An invariant is an assertion that should be always ​true at the location where these invariant is specified. ​We have two major types of invariants: class invariant and loop invariant. ​Class invariant can be seen as ​a both a precondition and a postcondition of every public method in the class. ​Basically, class invariant will be checked in the beginning ​of the measure body by checking such class invariant as precondition, ​and also checked at the end of ​the method body execution by treating it as a postcondition. 
​In contrast, loop invariant is an assertion that is true before the loop, ​and after exiting the loop, ​and every time going through the loop. ​Now, let's take a look a very simple class, ​ValueRange which has a two object fields, ​lower been initialize with ​minimum integer and upper being initialized with a maximum integer. ​Then, we have two public methods setLower, ​when the argument i is less than upper, ​then i's value is assigned to lower. ​Similarly, for the public methods setUpper, ​if the argument i is greater than lower, ​then we assign i's value to upper. ​Then, we need to think about what properties our objects states, ​particularly the object feels lower and uppers need to satisfy ​at the beginning of the execution of the body of a setLower, ​and at the end of the execution of the body of setLower. ​Similarly, such property must be satisfied at ​the beginning of the execution of method body of setUpper at the exit, ​or the end of the method body execution of setUpper. ​When we investigate the coal and along reason runtime information, ​we can see we actually have this particular order like Math.minInt ​would be less or equal to lower and less ​than upper and less ​equal to Math.maxInt. 
​Okay. You can double check to see whether ​the such property would be always true at those execution points, ​as we already discussed beginning and the end of ​the method body execution for each of the public methods defined for this class. ​Next, let's take a look a very simple method foo, ​which the behavior of summing up the numbers from one, two, three, ​and up to n, by taking the sum of these numbers and return the sum. ​Then, we can see what precondition which specify for this method, ​and what postcondition which is specified, ​along with what loop invariant which ​specify for the loop body in the middle of the program. ​Given that we are summing up the number starting from one up to n, ​which means that n should be at least being equal to one or greater than one. ​Basically, we can specify the precondition as n greater than 0, ​or we could specify n greater equal to one. ​Both are equivalent because n is integer. 
​Then, for the postcondition, ​we can specify the property as the result of sumFrom one to n, ​by writing some helper method to help us to specify such a properties. ​For the loop invariants, ​we can specify s which is ​the local variable that we use to accumulate the intermediate sums, ​that we are going to return and then the invariant property would be these s is ​equal to sumFrom starting from c plus 1 up to n. In practice, ​developers are encouraged to write precondition for those methods needing preconditions. ​Especially because such preconditions can be ​used to help improve the robustness of the methods, ​for guarding against those illegal invariant inputs. ​In addition, typically preconditions are relatively easy to specify. ​Developer can also write class invariants for class, ​especially when class invariants are not too complicated to specify. ​However, in practice, developers often may not write postconditions, ​because such postconditions may be too difficult, ​or too complicated to specify for method. 
​In contrast, developers may write unit tests ​reflecting some parts of the properties being refracted in the postconditions. ​However, we write assertions in unit tests to reflect such properties, ​especially when developers are writing parameterized tests. ​Note that the properties in unit test, ​or parameterized test can be easier for being specified, ​because such properties in the unit test would be typically under a specific scenario, ​such as a particular method sequences. ​In contrast, postconditions in the methods would be much more complicated to specify, ​because these preconditions would need to be universally ​applicable during the execution at the end of the math bodies execution. ​In general, developers are encouraged to write assertions to match intended behaviors, ​so that especially for those places that errors may occur. ​Such as a some environment interactions, ​like after the environmental interactions I return value of the environment interactions, ​and validating the stays of environment states after certain environment interactions. ​Such assertion it could be very helpful for improving ​the efficiency and effectiveness of debugging. 

### Question 1. Which of the following is the assertion that needs to be True after a method execution?
- Precondition
- Checkpoint
- Postcondition ✅
- None of the above

### Question 2. Is the following statement True or False?
Invariants are assertions that are always True.
- True ✅
- False

### Question 3. Which of the following have to be True for a loop invariant?
- Before the loop ✅
- After the loop ✅
- During the loop ✅