11.4 Failing-Input Simplification

​This is a lecture topic on Failing-Inputs Simplification, ​being part for the lecture topic of the debugging. ​By the end of this video, ​you will be able to: Explain the key ideas, ​of binary search to simplify a failing input. ​Explain the key ideas of delta debugging to simplify a failing input. ​Conduct binary search, to simplify a given failing input and conduct delta debugging, ​to simplify a given failing input. ​Let's take a look, ​a problem report being created 19 years ago for the Mozilla browser. ​In particular, printing a web page causes Mozilla to crash. ​This is the source of the HTML page ​being used to reproduce the crash of the Mozilla browser, ​when going through those sets being described in the problem report. 
​As you could see, such HTML page is quite complicated ​with so many different parts being included in the HTML page. ​Our goal is to simplify such HTML page as ​the failing input in order to allow us to have ​a easier time to carry out for localization, ​and any other later steps in the debugging process. ​For these failing input, ​we actually can simplify such failing input to ​a very simple laser for HTML page code, we just select. ​Next, let's figure out how we can use specific techniques to simplify ​such complex failing input to a single lines ​of HTML code in the failing HTML page. ​We first can use a binary search to help us to simplify the failing inputs. ​A single long bar in our table, ​indicates the full HTML page initially given to us as the failing input. ​We use the last column, ​to indicate whether such input would cause failing input or not. 
​So, for the binary search, ​we split our current failing input into two parts. ​Then we discard half of the input, ​and we try again, ​to see whether the inputs would be failing or not. ​If it's still a failing input, ​we keep repeating this step further repeating ​the splitting of the currently failing input into smaller inputs. ​Otherwise, we go back to the previous state and ​discard the other half of the input and try again. ​For our example, we start with initial failing input the full page of the HTML page. ​Then we split the HTML page in half and we keep only the first half ​and see whether such input would be still ​failing and we find out is indeed still failing. ​Then we further split such a failing inputs in half, ​and try the first half again. 
​This is a one fourth of the original failing HTML page. ​We see that such one fourth original failing inputs still fails, ​then we keep breaking it down into half and try the first half. ​But this time, we see that actually we have a positive input. ​Which means that we have to go back the third step, ​and try the second half to produce these new input and see whether it's failing or not. ​Then we see actually the second half actually would be a failing input. ​Then we further split such failing input in half and try the first half again, ​and we see is a passing, ​which means that we need to go back and try ​the second half and check whether the input is a failing or not. ​So, after such steps in our twelfths try, ​we could narrow down to ​this particular single line out of so many lines in the initial failing HTML page. 
​For these simple line with 40 characters, ​we see that it's still a failing HTML page for ​reproducing the problem following the steps described in the problem report. ​Next, we show how we can use more sophisticated techniques to further ​simplify these single line in the HTML page to be including only select, ​basically using very simple HTML file ​including the select tag can actually allow us to reproduce a problem. ​Let's start with this single line that we already have in our failing HTML page. ​We can use the binary search to further reduce or simplify such failing input. ​Let's try the first half, ​and then we see actually it's passing inputs instead of the failing input. ​Then we try the second half, ​we also have the passing inputs, ​which means that if we take each of the two parts, ​we still have the passing inputs instead of the failing inputs. ​Then here we get stuck. 
​What shall we do next? ​By using our earlier binary search process ​we cannot make progress in this particular point. ​We use a technique named as delta debugging to deal with a situation ​where two halves of the original failing input would be passing inputs. ​In particular, we start with applying ​few and large change such as halves to produce alternatives, ​such as picking the first half of ​the original failing input and the second half of the original failing inputs. ​If both halves are passing tests, ​then we move on to further apply more and smaller change on ​the original failing input to produce ​finer granularities of the change and produce more different alternatives. ​For our example, we use the factor of two to further ​split the change or the portions from the original failing inputs. ​Here, we take out the one force, ​the first one force of the original failing inputs ​and see whether we had the passing of failing inputs. 
​Similarly, we take out the second of the one force portion ​of the original input and see the status of ​the passing and failing and the third and fourth, ​and see whether after we apply such finer granularity of the change on ​the initial failing inputs whether we have the luck of getting smaller failing inputs. ​If not, then we further split the granularity to ​make it even smaller in terms of such change on the currently failing inputs. ​So, the process would go on until we reach the point that we cannot ​further breakdown the smaller change being applied on the currently failing inputs. ​Now, let's look at our example to see how ​such delta debugging technique can be applied to simplify the single line ​of the HTML page to be ​just select tag in this single line. ​So, as we explained earlier, ​this single line would be the failing inputs. ​If we take the first half or the second half to form a new input, ​as smaller input, unfortunately, ​we get passing inputs. ​Therefore, we trigger the delta debugging step of refining the granularity of ​the change being applied on the failing input to produce more alternatives. 
​Basically, instead of removing the half of the failing inputs, ​we remove the one fourth of the failing input one at a time. ​We remove the first one fourth of the inputs, ​unfortunately, we get the passing test. ​Then we remove the second part of the one fourth portion. ​Fortunately, now we have a failing input, smaller failing input. ​Then we start from the smaller failing input. ​Still we can apply these delta, ​like basically one fourth of the change on the currently failing inputs. ​Basically, we remove the first one fourth portion of the currently failing inputs, ​but we get a passing input. 
​Then we further remove the second one fourth of the portion, ​we suspect to the currently failing inputs. ​Fortunately at this point, ​we have failing input. ​Then we use these failing input still applying these one fourth delta, ​by removing the first one fourth portion of the valid inputs and we get passing inputs. ​Then we continue the process by removing ​the second one fourth portion which happens to be ​the last portion of the currently failing inputs, ​and we get a passing input. ​We keep such process until we reach ​the 33rd round of such experimentation, ​we get failing inputs also, ​using the select tag. ​We try to further reduce ​such eight characters inputs to be smaller like seven characters. ​Unfortunately, all these seven characters ​reduce inputs passing and therefore we have the conclusion ​that these 33rd input would be ​our minimum failing inputs that our delta debugging techniques produce. 


### Question 1. Consider that the failing input has 1000 lines of code. How many tries will it take by binary search to get to the line of failure?
- log_e(1000)
- 2^1000
- e^1000
- log_2(1000) ✅

### Question 2. Is the following statement True or False?
Delta debugging is used to further simplify the failing input after binary search doesn't work.
- True ✅
- False

### Question 3. Which of the following is True about delta debugging?
- It starts of with few, small changes and then proceeds to more, large changes
- It starts of with more, small changes and then proceeds to few, large changes
- It starts of with few, large changes and then proceeds to more, small changes ✅
- It starts of with more, large changes and then proceeds to few, small changes